#MakerFluidics
##Microfluidics for all

#Abstract
Microfluidics has demonstrated potential to the synthetic biologist: reducing reagent and sample use while increasing automation, sensitivity and throughput. Yet the use of microfluidic devices in synbio labs remains very much the exception rather than the norm. In light of the overwhelming evidence pointing to the benefits of microfluidics, the fact that all synbio labs aren't in a rush to incorporate lab-on-a-chip devices points to fundamental problems with the technology that eclipse its potential benefits. This research lowers the microfluidic barrier to entry by exploring fabrication techniques that don't require expensive, specialized equipment and, instead, utilizes ubiquitous maker-space devices such as microcontrollers, 3D printers and desktop CNC mills. Even with these constraints, we are able to realize novel microfluidic primitives towards a more accessible, yet scalable, device manufacturing technique.


Microfluidic devices can improve life in the wetlab by reducing reagent and sample amounts while increasing experimental sensitivity, repeatability and throughput all in an automated fashion1. Yet, the application of microfluidic devices in synthetic biology remains very much the exception rather than the norm. In light of the overwhelming evidence pointing to the benefits of microfluidics, the fact that all synbio labs aren't in a rush to incorporate lab-on-a-chip devices points to fundamental problems with the technology that eclipse its potential benefits. This research lowers the microfluidic barrier to entry by exploring fabrication techniques that don't require expensive, specialized equipment and, instead, utilizes ubiquitous maker-space devices such as microcontrollers, 3D printers and desktop CNC mills. Even with these constraints, we are able to realize novel microfluidic primitives towards a more accessible, yet scalable, device manufacturing technique.
